The new file 'HighAltitudeWaypoints.kmz' was generated from the FADDS database,
the official publication of the FAA. That database identifies 'fixes' according
to their type and indicates what ARTCC, if any,  uses the fix for high-altitude 
and low-altitude flight (separated so that high-altitude is FL180 and above). I
was able to use the files from FADDS to extract the waypoints that are used
for flight control, and to generate a KML file (HighAltitudeWaypoints.kml)
for use with Google-Earth and also a text file for input to PlanFlight. These
are included in the latest update to the SVN repository. and the KML file is
attached.

I'll provide a little information below on what assumptions I made in making 
these files, but first: My recommendation is that this file is the one that 
should be used on the Mission Coordinator displays. I don't think we need 
another for low-altitude flight because it turns out that all these high-
altitude fixes are also low-altitude fixes. The reverse is not true: There are 
many low-altitude fixes that are not usable for high-altitude flight, so 
another file could be made with more low-altitude fixes. But this is already 
such a dense set that there isn't need to expand it for low-level flight, 
although that would be possible (and I already made such a low-altitude kml). 

Some comments about the files:

1. As before, the references to external web sites will need to be changed
   to 'acserver...' for the GV.

2. I excluded these fixes that were present in the database:
   a. Any fixes labeled as military.
   b. Any fixes not labeled as published.
   c. Computer Navigation Fixes (CNF): The FAA says these are not acceptable 
      for filing flight plans or for communication with controllers.
   d. Fixes labeled as 'ATC coordination fixes' -- I'm not sure this was
      necessary, but there aren't very many of these.
   e. GPS fixes: Again, that probably wasn't necessary.
   f. Approach fixes.

3. After these exclusions, almost all the fixes were in three categories: RNAV,
   Position reporting, and 'NRS waypoints' -- the latter are named waypoints at
   even values of lat-lon, like 31 deg 30 min, -106 deg. These don't appear
   on the enroute high-altitude charts but are apparently usable.

4. The KML file uses two different symbols. The larger blue 'target' symbol
   denotes a fix that also is visible on the enroute charts. (Some of the
   above-mentioned NRS fixes don't have a name on the charts but their 
   locations can be found from the lat/lon labels, so they are shown with the
   large blue symbols also.) These symbols also have associated names visible 
   in GE. Other symbols that are not present on the Enroute maps but are still 
   usable appear as smaller circle-and-dot symbols in a reddish-brown color. 

5. I limited the area covered to latitudes of 28 to 45 and longitudes from
   -107 to -80. This reduced the dataset more than 1/2 vs the full US.

6. All of these have associated bubbles that show the lat/lon in deg-min 
   formati, the type of fix,  and for fixes that appear on the enroute charts
   there is a notation in the bubble that lists 'ENROUTE HIGH'.

7. There are so many of these that they should be turned off except when needed.
   In particular, to zoom or pan, you should turn these off first and wait
   until you have selected the area you want before turning them back on.

To summarize: This is a very dense set of waypoints, all listed as suitable
for coordination of high-altitude and low-altitude flight. They are current
now and I will be notified when there are updates. I think these are
what we should use. Please let me know of any problems.

  -- Al
