To run:
     python PlanFlight.py [Plan.name]
 or ./PlanFlight.py [Plan.name]  -- if first made executable via chmod

These notes are preliminary documentation for the PlanFlight routine and
some guidance for users of the program. The first part of these notes give
some instructions for using the program; later sections have some more
detailed information on how this works and what is needed for maintenance.

The Layout:

The main window is laid out in two panels, and also has a menu bar at the 
top and a status bar at the bottom. The left panel has, in normal order,
the steps needed to construct a flight plan:
  1. Select Modules, with characteristics as specified in the right panel.
  2. Add each module as it is defined to the flight track. 
  3. Examine the configuration 
  4. Produce output in the form of a kml file.  
  5. Start Google Earth with the kml file.

The buttons colored red must be used, along with the 'Select Module'
ComboBox. The white buttons are optional but aid in checking what has
been done.

A normal sequence might start by selecting an 'Initial Climb' module,
define it in terms of the location and altitude, and add it to the
track. Then if enroute points are desirable they can be added to the track
also, although they are not necessary what the flight will go directly
to the next defined maneuver. Next, a maneuver like a 'VerticalSection'
might be defined and added to the track. When all modules are added, a
'ReturnToBase' might finish the track definition.

For each module, the 'Module Specs' panel defines its characteristics. Not
all the entries there apply to every module; for some, a 'NA' or 'None'
may appear to indicate that the particular entry box does not apply. The
'Other' button, besides labeling the next entry window, when clicked
displays some indication of what the various entries, including the
'Other' entry, mean for a particular module. For example, to define a
VerticalSection, one would provide the length of the passes by the 'Size'
entry, give a reference point at which to start the vertical section in
the 'Anchor' entries, specify the orientation of the first track in the
'Angle' entry, and give the number of legs in the vertical section in
'Legs'. The 'Other' entry in this case indicates the altitude change
between passes, with a negative entry meaning to decrease altitude by
the specified amount before making the next pass.

There are two check boxes in the right panel. The top one labeled 'deg
min format' should be checked if you want to work in units of degrees
and decimal minutes (e.g., -105  7.1 to specify 105 degrees and 7.1
minutes West longitude) for specifying latitude and longitude. If this
box is not checked, the units will be decimal degrees (e.g., -105.117 for
longitude). It can be changed at any time; the displayed numbers will be
converted to the right format when this is done. The other check box is
labeled 'drifting' and specifies if the pattern should drift with the
wind or remain anchored to the track coordinates as specified.

The menu items are: File, Specs, Edit Module, Maps, NavPts, and Help. Each
will be described next. Note that there are also many shortcuts to these
menu items: Most can be accessed by using the 'Alt' key with the associated
underlined item in the menu bar, and many also have an associated 'Ctrl'
sequence, like 'Ctrl+Q' to quit or 'Ctrl+N' to see the navigation window.
These shortcuts are defined in the menu items that appear when a menu is
selected.

File:

The File menu has entries 'New', 'Open', and 'Save' to start a new track,
load a previously saved track, or save the track definition in a new
file. The expected name is Plan.xxx where xxx provides a unique identifier
for the plan, like perhaps the date. When you save a track, you will be
asked to provide a descriptive comment that will be saved with the track
and displayed when the track is reloaded. In addition, when you click
the 'Backup and make kml' button the track is saved to a file called
'Backup.track'. This is overwritten whenever a new kml file is made,
so this is not a substitute for saving tracks you might want to re-use.

The next item on the File menu is 'List'. This item causes a new
window, the 'Waypoint' window, to appear with a listing of the Modules,
Maneuvers, and Waypoints incorporated into the track as defined. These
items can be printed or saved to a disk file. The Waypoints window also
has a button labeled 'List VOR/DME'. Clicking on this button causes the
display to change to a Waypoint-only listing in which the waypoints are
specified not only by lat/lon but also relative to the nearest VORs and
navigation-chart waypoints. This display, which can also be printed,
can be useful when determining how to specify the track in coordinates
that the FAA controllers will accept.

Specs:

The 'Edit Specs' item on the 'Specs' menu causes a new window to
appear on which the general specifications used to construct tracks are
shown. These include such items as the airport location, assumed flight
speed and maximum turn tate, wind, fuel load available for research,
and fuel burn rate. These values can be editied and saved. Some, like
wind, are dependent on altitude; a value entered here will over-ride
such specifications and give a fixed value at all altitudes.

The wind is normally defined by a sounding that is downloaded via the
'Get Sounding' menu item. For now, this button downloads the latest
DNR sounding from the Wyoming database. This can be replaced by another
text sounding from that database, which should be placed in a file named
'Sounding'.


Edit Module:

The 'Edit Module' menu has entries for making a copy of a module,
inserting a new module into the track at a specified location, deleting
a module, or changing the order of modules. The '#' spin item in
the Module Specs window can be used to move through the modules of an
existing track, so it should be used to select the module to be deleted
or copied or before which to insert a new module. In addition, there is a
'Recalculate" item that causes the entire track to be recalculated. This
is done automatically when modules are changed, but forcing recalculation
may be useful if some of the 'Specs" items are edited after the track
is defined.

In addition, it is possible to edit the characteristics of any module. To
do this, display the module to be edited using the '#' spin button, then
change any characteristic (anchor point, number of legs, drifting or not,
etc.) and click the 'Add Module to track' button. This will overwrite
the previous definition of that module in the track.

Maps:

The 'Maps' menu has a single entry now, named 'Airways'. Clicking this
displays a copy of the high-altitude chart for the local area. As the
cursor is moved above this map, the corresponding lat/lon coordinates
are displayed. If the left mouse button is clicked, the appropriate
coordinates are transfered to the lat/lon entry in the 'Module Specs'
panel, so this is one way to determine appropriate coordinates for
modules. Additional maps can be added as needed.

NavPts:

The 'Navigation Points' are another way of specifying the coordinates
in the 'Module Specs' panel. If the menu item named 'See Nav Points'
is selected, a new window appears that has some named navigation
points, like VOR locations or named intersection on the high-altitude
charts, on the display. If the buttons on this display that have VOR
or other identifying names are clicked, the corresponding coordinates
are transferred to the main window, in the panel 'Module Specs' where
anchor points for modules are defined.

There are tools for manipulating what is displayed:

  a. Any item can be removed from the display via the 'Remove' button
  to its right. The 'Clear All' button removes all but the RAF button.
  b. New items can be added by specifying a name (up to 5 characters)
  and lat/lon coordinates in the text entry windows to the right of the
  'Add' button. Once specified, clicking on 'Add' adds the new item to
  the list of navigation points, which is always listed in aphabatical
  order. When adding a new point, you must (for now) follow this program
  foible: When using the deg-min format, two spaces must separate the
  entry for degrees from the entry for minutes.  
c. If the identifier for a known navigation point, like a VOR, is known, 
  that name can be entered to the right of the 'Add' button and then 
  clicking on the 'Find' button causes the lat/lon coordinates to be 
  updated to the correct values, if the waypoint is in the current database. 
  After getting the coordinates, the new item can be added to the list of 
  navigation points.  
d. The 'Load Nearby' button adds the two VORs and two high-altitude-way-
  points that are closest to the coordinates displayed on the 'Module Specs'
  panel to the displayed list. Note that the reference coordinates used
  are not those at the top of the 'Navigation Points' window but those in
  the original main window. The reason is that these are intended to be
  helpful in defining the coordinates for a module.  e. In addition, the
  waypoint names and navigation points can be saved and reloaded. Files
  should use the suffix .nav because the file search when reloading is
  restricted to those files. The file named 'Standard.nav' is loaded
  when the program first starts.

Performance: Various charts and tools for determining GV performance

5. Specific Range. This is the distance covered per lb of fuel used. The
   chart shows values for three different altitudes, and in each set the
   specific range is parameterized by the weight of the aircraft (with
   fuel), in 1000 lb units; i.e., the line labeled '50' corresponds to a
   gross weight of 50,000 lb. The orange dots on these plots are the
   'Long Range' values as specified by Gulfstream; these are values that
   accept a 1% penalty vs maximum-range values (the peaks in the curves)
   but in exchange realize about a 3% decrease, on average, in time to
   reach a destination point. A vertical line is shown at 0.80M because
   that is a common flight condition fot the GV when the aircraft can
   reach it.
Help:

There are three sources of help:

1. A preliminary User's Manual (what you are viewing now).
2. 'Context Help': On the main window, most of the buttons and text-entry
   lines have associated hints that can be opened by right-clicking on
   them. This opens a new window and displays hints and guidance on using
   that particular item. If no information is available, 'Hints unavailable'
   appears in the status bar at the bottom of the main window.
3. A few of the entries have associated 'tips' that become visible if the
   mouse hovers over them more than just briefly. These are brief comments
   that are intended to remind users of usage if it is already mostly
   familiar.


----------------------------------------- 

This finishes the section of these notes for new users. The following are 
some notes regarding internal working of the program that will be useful to 
anyone forced to look at the code or make changes to it:

1. Two Perl scripts, 'ReviseCoodinates.pl' and 'Nearest.pl', are used to
implement some of the above functions. The translation of coordinates
from lat/lon to VOR-relative is done in the former. It is run via a
system call and the output is written to a file that is read back into
the main program. 'Nearest.pl' runs similarly; it finds the two VORs
and two waypoints on the high-altitude charts that are closest to the
reference point.

2. The 'Airways' map (stored in the directory as 'Airways.png') was
made via a screen dump from Google Earth after the flight maps were
loaded into it. After some cropping, the coordinate transformation was
determined by finding three sets of corresponding coordinates, cursor
integer vs lat/lon, and then using the program 'Xform.py' to find the
transformation. That transformation is hard-coded into the routine
now. New maps could be made in the same way, and if that turns out to
be needed often the process should be improved and automated.

3. The VOR and FAA-waypoint coordinates are contained in two files,
VOR.txt and WPT.txt. They are in a subdirectory called 'NavPoints',
which also contains many of the original .xml files from which these
coordinates were drawn. The directory is much larger than it meeds to be
for operation of this program, but I kept these files in case it becomes
necessary to extract different VORs or WPTs for a new project. Some of
the programs to do this are still available, I think in DC3 directories
but maybe also/or in PREDICT or ADELE directories.

4. Many modules are not implemented yet. Because this will be easy to
add, I put this off until I could get the oher parts of the structure
to a usable state.

5. This was written using Python 2.7, not installed yet on EOL machines. 
The major compatibility problem is with the 'format()' function, used
extensively here but not available in Perl 2.4. It appears to be available
in 2.6, installed on tikal. wxPython is also installed on tikal, and the
program will run there but not on machines like shiraz or bora.

6. Glade works with wxpython, so I may consider trying that. However,
the layouts are fairly straightforward so that may not be efficient or
needed now.

7. The coordinate display on the Map window is still in the order
long/lat. This probably should be changed for consistency.

8. There does not seem to be a good way to transfer coordinates from
the MC display to this program, or from Google Earth. That would be
handy because then one could position tracks relative to radar or
satellite images. Chris W. has implemented a waypoints feature on the
MC display that provides coordinates in a way that can be transferred
via cut-and-paste; that may be the best we'll be able to do.

9. The main need now is better specification of the aircraft performance:
    a. fuel burn, e.g., in climbs and descents b. turn radius vs altitude
    c. maybe, performance vs air density d. additional sounding sources
